So this is components that completed,
this is very similar to what we had,
originally I did.
We had a spoiler alert with a question,
but I did show the syntax where you can
skip the constructors in this case.
So it doesn't always
be as much binding but
we talked about the fact that this
isn't supported out of the box.
You do need a battle plugin which happens
to be installed in create react app but
not not necessarily out of
the box in a custom setup.
We set component DidUpdate.
And we're gonna give ourselves a little
bit of a timer here we'll say set timeout.
This is the simulate.
So we can tell from the click to what
the actual component did update happen.
So we'll say set timeout
will go to function and
we'll say console log.
And we'll say count Is this.state.count.
And we'll just have it wait three seconds,
that's enough for
me to slam on the increment button and
see what happens.
All right.
Cool, so
I'll hit increment a bunch of times.
You can see that 7 times we logged
to the console the number 7, right?
Which meant we are,
mutating is not the right word, but
we're still referencing
the same this.state.value.
Right, like we call this .state,
which is still stored on that object.
So when all of those three second
delays caught up,it's like, all right,
what is this .state?
What seven, right?
Which makes a certain amount of sense,
mostly because because we
just saw it happen, right.
Like, I think we did a guessing game,
we probably would've said either one, two,
three, four, five, six, seven or
seven, we might've been 50/50.
But here we can see, we're staring
with the evidence in our face.
That when all those sub timeouts caught
up, they tried to read this .state,
well we hit it seven times,
it is now seven.
So what I'm gonna do,
is I'm gonna switch back.
So we can see the difference.
Local storage.
That's fun.
Switching branches is fun.
Let's go ahead and
just turn this into a useState for now
And I remove these other effects.
All right, so what happens if
we do the same thing here now?
We'll give it a set timeout.
3,000 and we'll say console log.
Cool.
Effectively the same code
instead of component did update,
we now have and
this is all up on the account prop.
Component update was
gonna run all the time.
We might wanna add conditionals if we have
had multiple props, so on and so forth.
This is only listening for
the variable count property rather state.
And we'll go ahead and we'll slam on it.
Right, in this case we're not getting
them all referencing the last value.
This is not fundamental to
a different way the two APIs work
this is a fundamental difference
to the way JavaScripts work.
Before it was a class object
that was one class that
was sitting there that
had a state property.
So when all of those new timers caught up
they were like shat is this state was this
the state was this state, right?
In the case of the function components,
it is a unique call of
the function every single time.
So the first time count was zero and this
was the one that's incrementing by five,
but if I did decrement,
a bunch of times, you'll see it by one.
So it is a unique call to every function,
right?
Which means you're getting
a copy of the state and
the props every single time, you're not
referencing a class property on an object.
And so this is again,
one of those subtle differences.
You're like, I'm gonna refactor
all the things to hooks and
then all of a sudden like it
starts going very poorly for you.
Right as these kind of very subtle
differences in between the two and
like how they work,
which is interesting, right?
Well, what would we do in the event
that we actually wanted to
persist some amount of state?
Right?
We wanted to know, like, we had a bunch of
ways before of telling what the state was,
what will be next time the class based
components because it's unique every time.
We don't have a great way.
I mean, we do but
like in our current conversation,
we don't have a really great way of
persisting any data between renders.
All right, I want to know what it was last
time or something along those lines where
I want to store a value in between
each invocation of this function.
We need a way of doing that.
Like there are subtle use cases, right?
Do you wanna go back to the previous
state like a very simple undo?
Do you wanna find out if the number is
now higher or lower than it was before?
Right, well, in order to tell the number
was higher, lower than was before,
you're gonna need to know what it
was before and what it is now.
Right?
And could you start storing
multiple things in stage and
trying to shuffle them around?
Sure.
And in a simple counter application
that might even work, right, but
you can see a world where
that doesn't work super well.
There is a way to do it.
And it's actually using
a another hook that's used for
a second thing that we'll
talk about in a second.
You might have seen before,
like, Rex has this idea of refs.
Right?
And a ref is usually we give it to a DOM
node that we want to be able to target and
focus.
Well, that's going to
theoretically persist.
You might want that.
But, it also gives it is an object
that kind of stays there.
And, you can actually reference it and
will stay it'll be
the same object over time.
So for instance, if I did this.
I'm gonna just clean up
just a little bit here,
let's make this back to a set count of,
C + 1, I wanna get rid of some of
these other ones up here for a second,
it's what I use when I'm tired
of the ES on console logs.
All right, now we're incrementing
by one the same way we were before.
Now, we could theoretically go ahead and
get a,
It's gonna be this React.useRef, right?
Now Ref, it's gonna give an object
which effectively looks like this.
It has this current property on it, right?
And the reason for that is that way I can
persist the object cuz we said before
primitives are passed by value.
Objects are passed by reference.
So this way we can still keep
referencing the same object.
So we can set this, and if we can set just
once it will be the same every time it
will be persisted right, it'll be the same
dominoed will be the same value, so on and
so forth.
So what we could do is we could say
something along the lines of we
wanna update it.
We will update it to the current count.
Now this is silly,
this isn't gonna do anything for
us yet, because we're gonna say all right,
we got a new count I'm gonna say
that the thing that persist is that.
But it means it in this space here.
Before I use that ref,
it is the previous value.
Right, because we're
setting it every time.
But until we set it,
we have access to what it was.
So I could say something
along the lines of.
If count ref current is less than count,
we'll make a message.
The message is that it
was previously higher.
Otherwise, it's created in the account
we'll say is previously lower.
Right?
Cuz this will now persist
between every render.
We're reassigning it otherwise it would
just be null the first time, so on and
so forth.
And so what we'll just do quickly
here as we say we'll put it,
Right It's now higher, it's now higher,
it's now lower, it's now lower.
We can compare the previous value
with the current one, right?
This gives us a kind of an escape patch
of getting a unique copy every time and
only adding a slice in time.
So yeah, the current will actually persist
across renders until you update it.
It is only getting updated
when we choose to update it.
If for instance,
I took out this line right here,
it would just stay the same
value across every render.
It is only happening
because I am assigning it.
Right?
So it gives you the ability to get some of
that same ability to like reference,
like a persistent value that
you had from a component class you
now get with a function as well.